========== OpenNF: Enabling Innovation in Network Function Control ==========
==========                http://opennf.cs.wisc.edu                ==========
==========                      NF Controller                      ========== 

===== OVERVIEW ==============================================================
This README provides inforamtion about the OpenNF Controller. See the OpenNF 
website (http://opennf.cs.wisc.edu) for other OpenNF code and research
publications.

===== LICENSE ===============================================================
See the LICENSE file.

===== COMPILATION ===========================================================
1) Download the required libraries:
    - Floodlight 0.9.0
        http://www.projectfloodlight.org/download/
    - Google GSON
        https://code.google.com/p/google-gson/downloads/list

2) Install the necessary compilation tools:
    - Java Development Kit
    - Apache Ant

3) Tell Floodlight about the existence of the OpenNF controller module by 
   adding the following line to the Floodlight source file "floodlight/src/main/resources/META-INF/services/net.floodlightcontroller.core.module.IFloodlightModule":
        edu.wisc.cs.wisdom.sdmbn.core.SdmbnManager

4) Compile Floodlight and copy floodlight-0.90/target/floodlight.jar into
   the libs directory for the OpenNF controller.

5) Also place the JAR files for Google GSON in the libs directory for the
    OpenNF controller.

6) Compile the OpenNF controller by running:
        ant

===== CONFIGURATION =========================================================
A configuration file must be provided when launching Floodlight to indicate
that the OpenNF controller module should be started and to provide some basic
configuration for this module. A sample configuration file, "sdmbn.prop", is 
included with the controller code.

The last three lines of the same configuration file are specific to OpenNF.
First, the module "edu.wisc.cs.wisdom.sdmbn.core.SdmbnManager", which is the
OpenNF controller module, is appended to the list of modules.  Second, the 
ports to use for the state and event socket connections from NFs are set 
using the keys "edu.wisc.cs.wisdom.sdmbn.core.Sdmbnmanager.stateport" and 
"edu.wisc.cs.wisdom.sdmbn.core.Sdmbnmanager.eventport".

===== RUN ===================================================================
You can run the OpenNF controller using the following command:
    java -jar SDMBN.jar -cf sdmbn.properties
This will launch Floodlight and the OpenNF controller module, allowing
OpenFlow switches and NFs to connect. However, no OpenNF applications will be
launched with the sample configuration file. Download the "Applications" code 
from the OpenNF website for sample applications and instructions on how to 
launch OpenNF applications when the controller is launched.
        
